#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{fmtcount}
\usepackage{graphicx}

\renewcommand{\chaptermark}[1]{ \markboth{\textsc{#1}}{} }
%\renewcommand{\chaptermark}[1]{ \markboth{#1}{} }
\makepagestyle{myheadings}
%  \makeevenhead{myheadings}{\thepage}{\textsc{\chaptername\ \Numberstringnum{\thechapter}}}{}
  \makeevenhead{myheadings}{}{\textsc{\chaptername\ \thechapter}}{}
  \makeoddhead{myheadings}{}{\leftmark}{}
%  \makeheadrule{myheadings}{\textwidth}{0.4pt}
  \makeevenfoot{myheadings}{\thepage}{}{}
  \makeoddfoot{myheadings}{}{}{\thepage}

\makechapterstyle{hpmor}{%
  \chapterstyle{default}
  \renewcommand*{\chapterheadstart}{}
  \renewcommand*{\chapnumfont}{\normalfont}
  \renewcommand*{\printchaptername}{%
%     \centerline{\chapnumfont \textsc{\chaptername\ \Numberstringnum{\thechapter}}}}
     \centerline{\chapnumfont \textsc{\chaptername\ \thechapter}}}
  \renewcommand*{\chapternamenum}{}
  \renewcommand*{\printchapternum}{}
  \renewcommand*{\afterchapternum}{%
    \par\centerline{\parbox{0.5in}{\hrulefill}}\par}
  \renewcommand*{\printchapternonum}{%
    \vphantom{\chapnumfont \@chapapp 1}\par
    \parbox{0.5in}{}\par}
  \renewcommand*{\chaptitlefont}{\normalfont\LARGE\sffamily}
  \renewcommand*{\printchaptertitle}[1]{%
    \centering \chaptitlefont\textsc{##1}}}
  \renewcommand*{\afterchaptertitle}{\par\vspace\par}
\chapterstyle{hpmor}

\usepackage{fmtcount}
\usepackage{changepage} %per cambiare la dimensione del paragrafo
\usepackage{xcolor} %per il titolo in rosso
\setlength{\emergencystretch}{3em} %per alcuni problemi di hyphenation
\usepackage{shapepar} %paragrafi con una certa forma
\usepackage{url}%url lunga
\renewcommand*{\parttitlefont}{\normalfont\HUGE\sffamily}

\makeatletter
\renewcommand\part{%
  \if@openright
    \cleardoublepage
  \else
    \clearpage
  \fi
  \thispagestyle{empty}%
  \if@twocolumn
    \onecolumn
    \@tempswatrue
  \else
    \@tempswafalse
  \fi
  \null\vfil
  \secdef\@part\@spart}
\makeatother
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\master ENG_hpmor.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language italian
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman Linux Libertine O
\font_sans Purisa
\font_typewriter Inconsolata
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc false
\font_osf true
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf4
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 10
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize custom
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\paperwidth 6in
\paperheight 9in
\leftmargin 2.345cm
\topmargin 3.34cm
\rightmargin 3.517cm
\bottommargin 5.08cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language french
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle myheadings
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection*
Capitolo 22 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand nameref
reference "chap:22Il-metodo-scientifico"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\color red
Effetto Lake Wobegon
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\color red
Esperimento di conformità di Asch
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Alfred Tarski (Varsavia, 14 gennaio 1902 – Berkeley, 26 ottobre 1983) è
 stato un matematico, logico e filosofo polacco trasferitosi negli Stati
 Uniti.
 Per i suoi risultati nell'ambito della matematica -- inclusa la metamatematica,
 la teoria degli insiemi, la teoria della misura, la teoria dei modelli
 e l'algebra generale -- è considerato fra i maggiori logici della storia,
 insieme ad Aristotele, Gottlob Frege e Kurt Gödel.
 In particolare è considerato il risolutore del paradosso del mentitore.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\color red
Eugene Gendlin
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Capitolo 24 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand nameref
reference "chap:24L'ipotesi-dell'intelligenza-mach"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Frans de Waal, 
\emph on
La politica degli scimpanzé.
 Potere e sesso tra le scimmie
\emph default
 [1982], 1984, Laterza.
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sub:de-Waal1984"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Capitolo 25 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand nameref
reference "chap:25Trattenersi-dal-proporre"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Since the science in this story is usually all correct, I include a warning
 that in Ch.
 22-25 Harry overlooks many possibilities, the most important of which is
 that there are lots of magical genes but they're all on one chromosome
 (which wouldn't happen naturally, but the chromosome might have been engineered
).
 In this case, the inheritance pattern would be Mendelian, but the magical
 chromosome could still be degraded by chromosomal crossover with its nonmagical
 homologue.
 (Harry has read about Mendel and chromosomes in science history books,
 but he hasn't studied enough actual genetics to know about chromosomal
 crossover.
 Hey, he's only eleven.) However, although a modern science journal would
 find a lot more nits to pick, everything Harry presents as strong evidence
 is in fact strong evidence - the other possibilities are improbable.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
