#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{fmtcount}
\usepackage{graphicx}

%\renewcommand{\chaptermark}[1]{ \markboth{\textsc{#1}}{} }
\renewcommand{\chaptermark}[1]{ \markboth{#1}{} }
\makepagestyle{myheadings}
%  \makeevenhead{myheadings}{\thepage}{\textsc{\chaptername\ \Numberstringnum{\thechapter}}}{}
  \makeevenhead{myheadings}{\thepage}{\textsc{\chaptername\ \thechapter}}{}
  \makeoddhead{myheadings}{}{\leftmark}{\thepage}
%  \makeheadrule{myheadings}{\textwidth}{0.4pt}
  \makeevenfoot{myheadings}{}{}{}
  \makeoddfoot{myheadings}{}{}{}

\makechapterstyle{hpmor}{%
  \chapterstyle{default}
  \renewcommand*{\chapterheadstart}{}
  \renewcommand*{\chapnumfont}{\normalfont}
  \renewcommand*{\printchaptername}{%
%     \centerline{\chapnumfont \textsc{\chaptername\ \Numberstringnum{\thechapter}}}}
     \centerline{\chapnumfont \textsc{\chaptername\ \thechapter}}}
  \renewcommand*{\chapternamenum}{}
  \renewcommand*{\printchapternum}{}
  \renewcommand*{\afterchapternum}{%
    \par\centerline{\parbox{0.5in}{\hrulefill}}\par}
  \renewcommand*{\printchapternonum}{%
    \vphantom{\chapnumfont \@chapapp 1}\par
    \parbox{0.5in}{}\par}
  \renewcommand*{\chaptitlefont}{\normalfont\LARGE\sffamily}
  \renewcommand*{\printchaptertitle}[1]{%
    \centering \chaptitlefont\textsc{##1}}}
  \renewcommand*{\afterchaptertitle}{\par\vspace\par}
\chapterstyle{hpmor}

\usepackage{fmtcount}
\usepackage{changepage} %per cambiare la dimensione del paragrafo
\usepackage{xcolor} %per il titolo in rosso
\setlength{\emergencystretch}{3em} %per alcuni problemi di hyphenation
\usepackage{shapepar} %paragrafi con una certa forma
\usepackage{url}%url lunga
\renewcommand*{\parttitlefont}{\normalfont\HUGE\sffamily}

\makeatletter
\renewcommand\part{%
  \if@openright
    \cleardoublepage
  \else
    \clearpage
  \fi
  \thispagestyle{empty}%
  \if@twocolumn
    \onecolumn
    \@tempswatrue
  \else
    \@tempswafalse
  \fi
  \null\vfil
  \secdef\@part\@spart}
\makeatother
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\master ENG_hpmor.lyx
\begin_modules
initials
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language italian
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman EB Garamond
\font_sans Myriad Pro
\font_typewriter Inconsolata
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc false
\font_osf true
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf4
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize custom
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\paperwidth 6in
\paperheight 9in
\leftmargin 1.2in
\topmargin 0.85in
\rightmargin 1.2in
\bottommargin 1.2in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language french
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle myheadings
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter*
Prefazione
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Prefazione}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Cos'è 
\emph on
Harry Potter e i metodi della razionalità
\emph default
 e perché dovrei leggere questa storia?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Quella che hai tra le mani è la traduzione in lingua italiana di 
\emph on
Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality
\emph default
 -- frequentemente abbreviato in 
\noun on
hpmor
\noun default
 --, una 
\emph on
fanfic
\emph default
 di Harry Potter scritta dallo studioso di teoria della decisione Eliezer
 Yudkowsky.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Ovviamente hai sentito parlare di Harry Potter e probabilmente sai che a
 scrivere la saga del giovane mago è stata la scrittrice inglese J.K.
 Rowling, non un tizio dal nome decisamente ebraico, studioso di qualcosa
 che non hai mai sentito prima.
 In effetti il trucco sta in quella parola in corsivo, 
\emph on
fanfic
\emph default
, che è la contrazione dell'inglese 
\emph on
fan fiction
\emph default
, ovvero 
\begin_inset Quotes fld
\end_inset

narrativa composta dagli appassionati
\begin_inset Quotes frd
\end_inset

: si tratta di una pratica letteraria amatoriale, con la quale gli appassionati
 di una serie di libri -- come pure di un film o di una serie televisiva
 o di un fumetto -- scrivono racconti ambientati nel mondo delle storie
 e dei personaggi che amano.
 La maggior parte delle fanfic sono di qualità scandente (ricorda, sono
 scritte da appassionati della serie, non da scrittori veri), ma alcune
 sono decisamente ben scritte e pochissime sono qualitativamente indistinguibili
 da romanzi scritti da professionisti; ci sono anche casi in cui una fanfic
 viene pubblicata da una casa editrice seria e diventa un successo editoriale
 internazionale.
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Ad esempio, la trilogia di 
\size normal
\emph on
Cinquanta sfumature di grigio
\emph default
 di E.L.
 James era nata come una fanfic della serie di romanzi 
\emph on
Twilight
\emph default
 di Stephenie Meyer.
\end_layout

\end_inset

 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
Harry Potter e i metodi della razionalità
\emph default
 è una fanfic talmente ben scritta che, sebbene non avrà mai un'edizione
 commerciale per questioni di diritti d'autore sulle storie del famoso mago,
 ha portato alla nascita di un'ampia e vibrante comunità di appassionati.
 È una delle fanfic più lette tra quelle pubblicate sul sito 
\emph on
fanfiction.net
\emph default
, con più di 23.000 recensioni; ha un sito in 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Il fatto che Harry Potter e i metodi della razionalità sia ben scritto è
 solo uno dei motivi per i quali dovresti leggerlo.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Suddivisione in quattro archi narrativi, di cinque.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Comunità.
 Recensioni, fanfic tra le più lette in assoluto.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Due parole sull'autore.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Dinosaurusgede.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*

\emph on
What is Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
url{http://lesswrong.com/r/discussion/lw/ir3/video_what_is_harry_potter_and_the_m
ethods_of/}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Hello.
 You’re all here for the Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality thing?
 OK.
 This is my first time doing public speaking so please make allowances for
 my noob mistakes.
 Also, for the same reason, please hold your questions until the end.
 You may wish to write down any that come to you so you don’t forget.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To start - I’m going to assume everyone here knows what fanfic is.
 Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality is fanfic written by decision
 theorist Eliezer Yudkowsky and it’s one of the most popular Harry Potter
 fanfics online.
 It’s the most reviewed and followed HP work on fanfiction.net and it’s received
 praise by award-winning authors.
 I don’t really have much to do with it, I’m mainly just a fan.
 I am big enough of a fan that I record and produce the audio-book version
 of it though, so I was asked to do this presentation.
 Plus I live a few blocks away.
 So that’s why I’m here.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
You’re here because you all want to know what the big deal is.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Part of the big deal is that it’s a really good story, but there’s lots
 of good fanfic and generally they don’t have their own panel to discuss
 them.
 The thing about Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality – which I’ll
 just be calling Methods for short – is that it captures the heart of the
 rationality movement.
 Maybe you’ve heard of this “rationality” thing, maybe not, but it’s a growing
 movement among certain types of geeks.
 And when a geek subculture latches on to some fictional work and says “OMG,
 this is US!” it’s usually pretty damn good in it’s own right.
 My Little Pony wouldn’t have the fandom it does if the show itself wasn’t
 great.
 So the Rationality part of Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality
 is pretty important to the whole.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Therefore before we get into the fic itself I’ll briefly touch on – what
 is Rationality, and why does it make a cool story?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Rationality is the study of general methods for good decision-making, especially
 when the decision is hard to get right.
 Of knowing what errors in thinking are common so we can avoid them.
 Of realizing when we are confused, or when we’re motivated by bad instincts.
 If you want to make good decisions you must not fool yourself, and you
 are the easiest person to fool.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This makes a story interesting because watching someone put in high-stress
 situations where making a good decision is the difference between life
 and death, when a good decision is hard to find, and seeing them frantically
 navigate through that mess is pretty exciting.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now, to make good decisions we also need true beliefs about the world around
 us.
 Rationalists assume that we can know true things about the real world.
 (I know that seems like really obvious assumption, but you’d be surprised).
 However our beliefs about reality are imperfect.
 The model we have of reality in here doesn’t exactly match up with what’s
 really out there.
 The map of the world we have in our brain isn’t entirely accurate.
 In some places it’s completely wrong.
 What we need is a way to verify what we think we know and discover true
 things about the real world… a way of separating fact from delusion.
 If only someone would come up with a way to do that...
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Waitaminnit, you’re saying to me - they did, it’s called the scientific
 method! I’m pretty sure I don’t have to tell you all how awesome science
 is - We all love science yeah? GO SCIENCE! So naturally Rationality incorporate
s the scientific method.
 The truth about how reality works has to be part of any effective decision-maki
ng process.
 And anyone who’s read good science fiction knows how great a story that
 struggle to find the truth can be.
 The search to find out what’s going on, and why.
 The discovery of an underlying principle of how the universe works, and
 the power that comes from harnessing that knowledge.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Harry Potter may be set in a typical fantasy setting, but The Methods of
 Rationality is a Science Fiction story.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now, sometimes discovering a truth is not enough.
 Sometimes it doesn’t match with what you knew before, with assumptions
 and habits that guided your actions.
 We don’t think through every little thing we do in our day-to-day lives,
 we rely mainly on our reflexive biases and habits.
 You couldn’t cross a room if you had to think through and plan each step.
 So rationality isn’t just about finding out what is true about the world
 - if that’s all you wanted, you have the Scientific Method.
 Rationality is also about updating your implicit beliefs to more accurately
 match what you’ve discovered is true.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And it turns out that’s not so easy.
 It’s especially hard when what we discover conflicts with our hard-wired
 instincts.
 Our bodies and our instincts have evolved to grab all the calories and
 resources we can find, pass on our genes, and die.
 And so while we may consciously know that that bag of potato chips is bad
 for us, we still eat it, cuz it tastes good.
 We may consciously understand that the roller coaster is completely safe,
 engineered so that you’d have to really work hard at getting hurt, we are
 still terrified when we go over that initial drop.
 If you really want to effect a change in your behavior it isn’t enough
 to simply “know” something.
 You have to feel it.
 And to do that you usually have to play dirty.
 There’s an old Keanu Reeves movie where he plays a hacker, and at the climax
 he’s told he needs info that’s hidden in his own brain.
 He has to HACK HIS OWN BRAIN.
 DUN DUN DUN! We have to do the same thing, a lot.
 Rationality gives you the tools to hack yourself.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And that’s another great aspect of Rationality stories.
 Many great stories are about man vs man or man vs nature, some of the best
 stories are about man vs himself, man vs his own flaws.
 Thing is most people don’t have the weapons to wrestle with themselves
 effectively, most authors don’t even know those weapons exist.
 So the traditional “wrestle with oneself” is a grunting bare-nuckled back-alley
 fight.
 Which is fun, like that great brawl in They Live.
 But a story that incorporates rationality, upgrades this to a duel between
 cyber-ninjas with laser swords.
 It’s freakin’ cool and you don’t get to see that in most books, so it’s
 a hell of a show!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So, that’s rationality, and that’s how it makes stories awesome and unusual.
 But - why Harry Potter? After all, it was probably that name recognition
 that brought you here, and not the term “Methods of Rationality”.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To start with, the Potterverse is very fertile soil for fanfiction.
 There’s a reason some settings have only a trickle of fanfic, while others
 explode with it.
 Some settings really lend themselves to further exploration by fans.
 These settings provide a rich history in a living world that goes beyond
 just the characters in the story.
 There are allusions to events that have happened before or are happening
 outside the scope of the book - the rise of Grindelwald, the first wizarding
 war against Voldemort, the whole first generation backstory.
 And since in Harry Potter the action takes place in the modern day in and
 around our muggle world, there are a lot of practical implications that
 can provide speculation and plot-hooks for days on end.
 The more rich and complex the setting is, the greater the potential it
 has for fanfiction to explore and grow from it, and Harry Potter has a
 very rich world.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Of course there are many worlds ripe for fanfiction - why Harry Potter specifica
lly? MLP, Twilight, and Star Trek all have thriving fanfic scenes.
 Probably the biggest reason can be summed up in the title of the second
 chapter - Everything I Believe Is False.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I mentioned at the start that Yudkowsky is a decision theorist.
 A lot of sci-fi writers have a background in the sciences, and they explore
 “what-if” scenarios from their field in their fiction.
 Lets say you want to write a sci-fi piece that revolves around decision
 theory.
 To make it really captivating you want a character who already knows how
 to use these skills.
 Training is ok, and the many years of training that a ninja or a demon-slayer
 goes through can be interesting, but the real action is when they are near
 the peak of their mastery and they have to face down the Big Bad villain
 in a fight to the death.
 Most of the time the training is alluded to in flashbacks, or covered in
 a montage.
 It’s just not that fun.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To facilitate this, there is one major change between this fanfic and canon.
 In Methods of Rationality Petunia marries a kind University Professor instead
 of an ignorant jerk, and he teaches Harry about the Scientific Method and
 gives him the full set of Enlightenment skills and ideals so the story
 can just right into the action.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Now to really test a character’s skills and resolve you thrust them into
 a completely novel situation, one in which they didn’t prepare for and
 never dreamed they’d be tested, but which still relies on those skills.
 Which in the case of decision theory would mean revealing to the character
 that everything they thought they knew was false.
 They have been lied to all their lives, and the world doesn’t really work
 the way they thought it did.
 Now they have to re-examine everything they thought they knew, test every
 assumption they had.
 Is this thing I believe a true fact about reality, or was it part of the
 conspiracy to keep me ignorant? What beliefs can I keep and what must I
 change? Of those, which beliefs do I have to dump entirely, and which can
 I simply modify a bit? How do I internalize this new knowledge so that
 I act unconsciously on what I’ve discovered, rather than defaulting to
 old habits?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If you ask people to name settings in pop culture where there is such a
 radical revelation, where the protagonist learns that the world is mostly
 a lie, the two most common answers you get are “Harry Potter” and “The
 Matrix”.
 The Matrix is really cool, but the characters aren’t as interesting - they
 don’t have parents or relatives or backstory.
 Neo, as his name alludes, is New and completely disconnected from the surroundi
ng world, which works for the story they’re telling of the isolated loner,
 but that doesn’t make for very fertile fanfic soil.
 Also - the Matrix world doesn’t have magic.
 No one there is forced to say “I just saw a human turn into a cat, but
 she kept thinking using her human brain.
 What does this mean for what I thought I knew about brains?”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Plus Yudkowsky was a reader of Harry Potter fanfic, not Matrix fanfic, so
 it was natural to write in the same world he enjoyed reading.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I should probably get into the meat of the story itself.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Methods of Rationality takes place during Harry’s first year at Hogwarts.
 It starts with Harry getting his letter and initially follows the structure
 of the first book, with a trip to Daigon Alley, Platform 9 and ¾, the sorting,
 the conflict with Snape, even the Troll.
 But it does it all with a rationalist slant, which makes it a unique sort
 of story, and the differences between it and the original are really cool
 to watch.
 This slant results in some parodies of the original, like when it sorts
 Hermione into Ravenclaw because - as Harry comments - if Hermione Granger
 doesn’t qualify as Ravenclaw, there’s no reason for Ravenclaw House to
 exist.
 But the parodies aren’t mean-spirited - the author really likes the Potterverse.
 They’re just fun.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In terms of genre It’s hard to classify Methods of Rationality into any
 one category, but large parts of it are comedy.
 If you watch anime and enjoy that sort of over-the-top, falling-on-your-face,
 winking-at-the-audience style of humor, you will love Methods of Rationality.
 It has TONS of that.
 It has Boy-Who-Lived Fangirls trying to get Harry Potter to fall in love
 with them.
 It has someone trying to summon Harry with an epic straight-out-of-Lovecraft
 Elder God summoning ritual which goes… not quite how they expected.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
But it isn’t all comedy.
 Harry is attacked by a Dementor and re-lives seeing his parents murdered.
 He goes to Azkaban and meets a tortured Bellatrix Black.
 Like, literally being tortured.
 There’s blood debts and ransoms, and all the while Voldemort’s minions
 are trying to destroy him and kill his friends.
 So there’s drama and action and pathos as well as comedy.
 And it flows very nicely, Yudkowsky handles mood-switches extremely well,
 moving from comedy to drama to action and back to comedy with a skill that
 rivals professional authors.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Even though the story takes place only in Harry’s first year, it does draw
 in elements from the entire Potter timeline.
 There’s a time-turner.
 Remus Lupin, Rita Skeeter, and Mad-Eye Moody all make appearances.
 The three Deathly Hallows and the Peveral Brothers are a major plot point.
 Luna Lovegood doesn’t show up, since she’s too young to be at Hogwarts
 in the first year, but she is mentioned and several issues of The Quibbler
 show up.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I did mention the major change from canon - In canon Harry’s step-parents
 are evil and keep him locked up.
 That wouldn’t really work for this story, because Harry can’t be locked
 away from the muggle world, he has to have the knowledge and expectations
 about it in order for them all to be shattered.
 So But since almost all the action takes place at Hogwarts, the content
 of the story isn’t drastically altered by that.
 It’s mainly altered by the application of rationality.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The question sometimes comes up - what if I haven’t read the original Harry
 Potter books, or seen the movies? There are people who’ve heard the story
 is great and want to read it, but don’t have much desire to read the Potter
 books.
 I ain’t gonna lie - you won’t enjoy it quite as much.
 There are a lot of in-jokes that will go right over your head if you haven’t
 at least seen the movies.
 For example, the references to the Weasley pet rat will probably be confusing.
 But it’s not as bad as you might think, because there are A LOT of references
 in Methods of Rationality to tons of things outside the Potterverse.
 There’s references to anime, old sci-fi books, internet memes… there’s
 shout-outs to Star Wars and even to Gargoyles.
 So everyone will miss something.
 The in-jokes are great when you get them, and no big deal when you don’t,
 and if the in-jokes you don’t get happen to be Harry Potter in-jokes, that’s
 not a tragedy.
 To be honest, I hadn’t read the last two potter books when I started on
 Methods of Rationality myself.
 And I loved it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the end, you don’t actually need to have read the Potter books to enjoy
 Methods of Rationality.
 Characters are still introduced in a coherent way, the plot is internally
 consistent, and the knowledge you need to understand and enjoy the story
 is presented in the text.
 So if you’re on the fence, go ahead and give it a try.
 You really don’t have to plow through seven books you aren’t excited about.
 But if you can find the time to watch at least the first movie, it does
 make it more enjoyable.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Some of you may have realized that there is a problem with giving Harry
 a major rationality upgrade.
 For a story to be exciting there must be a real conflict, not a one-sided
 beatdown.
 There’s a law of good fanfic that says “If you give Frodo a lightsaber,
 you must give Sauron the Death Star.” Fortunately this IS a good fanfic,
 and Voldemort gets a huge upgrade in intelligence and rationality.
 The way he wraps the entire Wizard World into knots, even seducing Harry,
 is epic.
 And Draco Malfoy gets an upgrade as well, and turns from an egotistical
 bully to a shrewd plotter.
 This makes for really good reading for those of us more interested in power
 grabs and back-stabbing than broomstick-based sports.
 Not that there’s anything wrong with that...
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Personally, the plotting really is phenomenal.
 There is foreshadowing everywhere, things you’ll read that seem like throw-away
 jokes when you first encounter them, but that are clearly signs saying
 “This is what is going to happen next!” that blow you away when you read
 through a second time.
 There are chekov’s guns that are laid out early on that aren’t fired until
 50 chapters later (chapters aren’t that long).
 The way little plot points and comments are woven in and out, tieing early
 tiny actions back to huge events much later is stunning.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Obviously I’m a big fan.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There is one other thing about Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality
 that makes it unusual.
 It’s not just a novel.
 It’s also a deliberate instructional mechanism.
 Humans learn things by story-telling.
 Imagining something is mentally analogous to remembering something that
 didn’t actually happen.
 Yudkowsky uses this intentionally to direct his audience into developing
 stronger rationality skills.
 Almost every chapter, or group of chapters, is specifically designed to
 teach a technique or skill of rationality.
 The technique to be taught is right there in the chapter title.
 Chapter 26: Noticing Confusion.
 Most of the time a character, often Harry, will at some point explicitly
 explain what the technique is or how it is to be used.
 The chapter will also contain at least one example of someone succeeding
 or failing in the use of the technique.
 Sometimes multiple examples.
 Sometimes multiple examples of both.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The really crazy thing is, you generally don’t notice.
 The writing is strong and the story really pulls you in, so it’s integrated
 seamlessly into the plot progression.
 It isn’t until I go back and read a chapter a second time, referring back
 to the chapter title and really keeping my eyes open for all examples of
 it, that I realize just how central that particular idea is in that chapter.
 It makes me wish all books were written like that.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And as a final bonus for anyone who likes to really dig deep into their
 novels, Yudkowsky’s stated that Methods is a puzzle that’s meant to be
 solvable.
 That all the clues are laid out within it, and a reader who really wants
 to can work it out before it’s revealed at the end.
 Toward that end there are a number of places online where people discuss
 Methods of Rationality and what they think is happening.
 There’s a thread on TVTropes, and an HPMoR sub-reddit, as well as just
 people blogging about it now and then.
 So if you’re into that sort of puzzle-solving, this is right up your alley.
 The final arc will be released later this year, so there’s still time to
 get in on the action.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
OK, all that being said, this fanfic isn’t for everyone.
 There are some people who dislike how Harry talks to adults.
 Most of these people are parents.
 /shrug I’m not a parent, I don’t know.
 Some people just never get into the story, which is fine.
 The humor doesn’t appeal to everyone, and some of the dark parts are pretty
 dark.
 And I really wouldn’t recommend this to anyone who isn’t at least in their
 teens yet.
 The terminology and some of the more complex ideas are probably too daunting
 for younger readers.
 Also the story does touch on more adult subject matter a few times.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I’ll wrap up with some final info on where you can find this.
 The official home is at FanFiction.Net.
 You can go there and search for Harry Potter And The Methods of Rationality.
 Or just google Harry Potter And The Methods of Rationality.
 The cleanest site, with a table of contents and resource links and everything,
 is HPMOR.COM.
 That’s the site I use when I read it.
 There’s also the audio-book version, which is at HPMORpodcast.com.
 I run that one.
 And of course all of it is free.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
*breath*
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Alright, that’s my presentation, and I hope you’ve learned whatever you
 wanted to learn.
 Give it a shot and maybe you’ll love it as much as I do.
 I’ll now open the floor to questions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Fanfic?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Da TVTropes:
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
url{http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/FanFic}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation

\size small
Fan Fiction is a form of Alternate or Expanded Universe created by the fans
 of a work, rather than the work's original creator.
 Fan Fiction, or "Fan Fics" as they are often called, are written for several
 reasons: To continue a story that ended prematurely, to see what would
 happen if certain characters are placed in unusual situations, see what
 happens when the characters of one franchise encounter the characters of
 another franchise.
 Or sometimes to get the characters to have mad passionate (or occasionally
 just mad) sex with each other.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation

\size small
Due to the inexperience of many fan fic writers, fan fiction has gained
 a reputation for being a source of horrible, horrible writing.
 However there are fan fics out there that are 
\noun on
incredibly
\noun default
 good.
 Sometimes being just as good, if not better, than the original work.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\align right

\family sans
Cato Philosophus
\family default

\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Roma, giugno 2013
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
